Dagondanum writes "Multiple missions have been sent to Mars with the hopes of testing the surface of the planet for life — or the conditions that could create life.
The question of whether life in the form of bacteria (or something even more exotic) exists on Mars is hotly debated, and still lacks a definitive yes or no.
Experiments done right here on Earth that simulate the conditions on Mars and their effects on terrestrial bacteria show that it is entirely possible for certain strains of bacteria to weather the harsh environment of Mars.
Perhaps this is something that will be tested further in a few years by the Mars Science Lab, also known as "Curiosity" and (as reader Nova1021 points out) "the Mars Action Hero.
.NET is better than  Java.Windows 7 is  better than Linux, and unlike Macs doesn't require a gay fascist computer.I am better than you.
Sounds like we should get started with the terraforming.
Allow me to be the first to point out that we already know that some bacteria can survive interplanetary space travel and life on the Moon.
Now the real question is, can these bacterias be formed on Mars?
How is Bacterium formed?
How mars get pragnent?
They are probably using a slightly different definition of 'survive' in this case: instead of just holing up in the equivalent of a bacterium space suit, they feed, grow, and reproduce.
To my knowledge many species of bacteria can survive indefinitely in practically any environment, but not while actively metabolizing.
I am curious whether any of the species the article is talking about could actually survive and spread, if they would just stick around for a while and die out, or if they would only survive in a dormant state.
Buzz Lightyear steps off his lander to be the first human being on Mars.
Six hours later, he is a puddle of goo.
Two hours after that, all his crewmates are puddles of goo as well.
Mars Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game:Dumbest Question:   How I Mine Microbes?
News At 11.zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz.Yours In Novosibirsk,K.
Trout
The fact that modern bacteria can survive in those conditions says nothing about whether life could arise or even evolve there.
Its a bit like assuming that because cockroaches can survive high doses of radiation there's potential for a 6 legged lifeform to arise inside nuclear reactors.
What a weird question.
You're asking if Earth bacteria can be formed on Mars?
I would be quite surprised to see the same DNA sequence appear from two distinct evolutions.
But why do you care about that?
We don't even know if *any* life was ever formed on Mars.
If that is the case then we have already failed.
Any number of bacteria could have survived on the rovers could now be contaminating the surface.
With no known competition they could be flourishing.
I see little that can be done to figure out what is now native bacteria if any and what was brought via the rovers.
Considering there's decent evidence to suggest that there was flowing water on Mars long ago, it's quite possible they formed then and survived until now.
Life on earth is also apparently very old, according to the wikipedia article on abiogenesis "The oldest ancient fossil microbe-like objects are dated to be 3.5 Ga billion years old, just a few hundred million years younger than Earth itself.
" We have extremely little data on what sparks life though, so much bigger window but possibly a much narrower target than our extremophiles.
Doesn't really get proven on way or the other until we find life, or at least fossils, on Mars.
Remember that the Earth has had several large impacts in the past, and that many of these events hurled tons of rocks and debris into space.
Some of them at the proper angle and with enough force to leave orbit.We have found extremophiles hibernating in air pockets within rocks that had been air tight for hundreds of years.
Is it so much of a stretch to assume that some of these debris might have carried life from earth to another planet?
Realize that Mars doesn't have anywhere near the same level of atmosphere as the earth.
It isn't as protected against small meteorite impacts.
I could easily imagine life originating from Earth arriving on another world in the form of microorganisms.
It might not be Mars, but maybe Europa instead.
Maybe Earth life is already spreading itself throughout the Orion Arm.Disclaimer:Distances in space reduce the chances of this scenario considerably.
It really isn't that likely that this has happened.
Even supposing that life survived the trauma of leaving Earth, it would most likely settle into a slowly decaying orbit and fall back down.
Any impact powerful enough to send debris beyond the pull of earth's gravity would probably kill anything that lived within them.
But that doesn't remove it from the realm of possibility, and it's still a nice thought.
Two hours after that, all his crewmates are puddles of goo as well.If they figure out how to send radio signals it would be like ordering in pizza.
It could end up a form spam e-mail.
"Come to Mars we have a source of limitless energy", "Martians aren't bald we have a hair loss cure", "Viagra plants are a form of subsurface weed, free for the taking", "horny Martian women want to meet you", "prince of Mars needs help transferring money off planet, bring suitcases and lot of fat juicy people to carry them".
they're waiting for a reason.
Tell me the target market for "it's just awesome.
" and "why not?
" Until we see an intergalactic threat, I doubt we'll see the kind of R&amp;D needed to really accomplish this.
Now, Matians will think we are creating a biological warfare.
Well, it's been nice to post on /.
over the past few years.
See you all on the other side.
The rovers were sterilized and even if they weren't we could most definitely figure out if supposed found bacteria from Mars where from there or Earth.
All you have to do is to have a look at their ribosomes.
Don't exist?
Definitely not from Earth!
Different to Earth ones?
Definitely not from Earth.
If they're somewhat similar to ones found from Earth then just sequence genome DNA.
Pretty similar to something from Earth?
Well then odds are that they're indeed from Earth.
Otherwise you've got a Martian.
I see little that can be done to figure out what is now native bacteria if any and what was brought via the rovers.Wow!
Too bad the NASA/ESA scientists weren't as smart as you, because if they were they would have put policies spaceref.com in place to mitigate the risks of contamination.
Why do we expect or hope that earth-like life forms will be found elsewhere?The question of whether life in the form of bacteria or something even more exotic exists on Mars is hotly debated, and still requires a resolute yes or noHo hummm... We have had this debate going on since the "canals" were discovered on mars only to be debunked.
Once upon a time 600 years ago, people "knew" they are at the center of the universe.
We were unique, chosen by heaven to lord it over the animals and created in the image of heaven.
That was the view of Judaism, Christianity and Islam, and also of the eastern empires remember the "Emperor of Heaven" ?
Nowadays there is a large substantial minority of people whose thinking is guided by science.
For this very substantial minority - debunking the "humans are at the center" myth is an article of faith.
Finding the aliens - little green men or bacteria on mars - is important as an act of faith not just science.
It is important to separate real empirical science from the pseudo-science that is really an alternative system of belief.
If we just look at empirical facts, the probability of finding life twice in the same solar system is not huge.
Anthropo-centric theology/philosophy was rightly debunked by Copernicus, Galileo, Darwin and Einstein.
Anti-anthropo-centric thinking equally deserves to be debunked.
Science is about empirical evidence.
Full stop.
... that we've already transferred terrestrial bacteria via the robots that we've sent there?I think, if it's possible may not be, because of the trip, it puts science and Mars in general in an interesting situation.
There's a big problem with Mars when it comes to terraforming.
Mars lacks a spinning iron core so it has no protection from the sun blasting away its atmosphere.
We'd want to invent some way of keeping the air in place, otherwise we'd be terraforming something that will eventually be a barren rock.
** Just did a search and learned that scientists no longer think this is the case **My plan for terraforming Mars was to have giant tanks of algae.
Pull in the CO2, bring it to a temp the algae can survive, kick out the O2.
Could use some portion of the algae for food and fuel.
We might be able to have automated systems do much of this work decades from now.
Unfortunately I reckon that if we see "an intergalactic threat" starting the R&amp;D would be a bit on the late side.
No kidding.
I saw Mission To Mars too - we all know how that turned out.
These bacteria will definitely mutate and eat anyone who comes out to check on them.
I, for one, welcome our new bacteria overlords.
OK, TFA suggests that Martian soil could harbor dessicated bacterial spores that don't do anything.
They don't reproduce, they aren't active, they're just sitting there inert.
And that's pretty cool from the standpoint that we can dig up the remains of a former Martian ecosystem that existed long ago and far away.But, for the average taxpayer interested in funding missions, NASA, rocketry, exploration and grand scale achievements, that is pretty much a yawner.There is no way at all that anyone representing the USA, NASA, the Russian Federation and China would be willing to take back any microbes to Earth for further study unless those microbes were in a sealed environment and definitely rendered incapable of infecting anyone and anything on Earth.
For you young whippersnappers out there, I watched all of the Moon landings and I recall the disappointment of having to wait until the World Famous Astronauts emerged from their custom-made Windstream Mobile Home to actually see them in person and live and doing well after their trip to the sterile Moon.
And, while I appreciate the wonderous MSL "Action Hero" robot Transformer?!
we're about to send up there, there is nothing aboard that gizmo that will actually prove the existence of a microbe on Mars.
Because if said microbes are dormant, they're not going to be emitting methane or any other byproduct of active organisms.
And any results of the testing will be circumstantial and easily explained away as "possibly life or possibly something else we don't yet understand about the Martian environment.
"We won't settle this issue until a human being with a microscope, or an electron microscope actually goes there and sees those little dormant Martian neighbors with human eyes and some other human reproduces that experience.
And that is not going to happen under current NASA funding.
Ever.While I'm not in the camp saying "all these Martian rovers are misspent money," I don't agree that anything they find out will be conclusive, where life is concerned.
Unless, of course, some Martian happens to stroll by one of our cameras on his or her way to work.
http://blueollie.files.wordpress.com/2009/03/you\_are\_here\_galaxy.jpg
We're already doing it on Earth and don't know how to control it nor what the consequences will be.
So I'd be a little cautious about terraforming.Infecting Mars with Earth-seeds seems quite harmless OTOH, and very interesting.
If bacteria can survive in the upper layers of the Earth's atmosphere, and chunks of atmosphere can be blown away by the solar wind, is it possible that such bacteria could make the journey from Earth to Mars?
We should just send containers full of bacterias and wild things there... and see what grows..
In fact I think we should send bacteria-filled pods to as many planets/asteroids we can afford to.. this should be cheap.. Populate the whole thing..
Rather than maintaining the question "is there life out there?
" we should just force the most pleasant answer:
"Yes.. and we did it!
bacterium dict.org singular, bacteria plural
The problem is the reduction of greenhouse gasses, cooling down Mars.I'd want to knock a few heavy rocks down on Mars first.
After that, I'd want something to grow there that would pull oxygen and nitrogen, is there much of that?
out of the soil to thicken the atmosphere, so lowering the greenhouse gases won't be so harmful.
See, that's the problem.
It doesn't require an "intergalactic threat" for us to be in trouble.
We already know about one definite cause of Earth's destruction, and it's only about 93 million miles away.
If we keep saying, "we have plenty of time," eventually it won't be true.
Right on!Even if Mars has bacterial life, it is irrelevant.
We can plant life and terraform that area starting now.
We could start by selecting key bacteria that provide a thicker atmosphere, then follow with lichens and work our way up.
If Dr. McKay, NASA was right and due to current findings looks to be true we need only get to a tipping point before the frozen gases emitt quickly, making a more hospitable environment.Survival of the species long term especially my species, and any other species we bring with us...think lots of land for many animals pressed for space here, trumps worries about weather or not Mars has or has not bacteria of its own prediction here...if we find them they will share systematic relation to ours...meteroids can make the swap putting ours there.I say, lets concentrate on colonization now,get humanity more elbow room,  worry about the paleontology later.
That's called the "Panspermia wikipedia.org" hypothesis.
Finding the aliens - little green men or bacteria on mars - is important as an act of faith not just science.
And that's where I think the flaw in your argument is.
If it was faith, there wouldn't be a need to search for proof.
The people on the other side are quite content to say "because, that's why".
The levels of Methane on Mars are much higher than expected http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mars#Methane wikipedia.org .
If bacertia could easily survive under the soil in the red planet, than that could explain the source of methane.
?It's successful physiology.
The cell wall, for example, is a likely innovation for any liquid-based life form.
Anything that has inheritable traits might sequester that information in some analogy to a nucleus.
Any time when an organism is formed from multiple smaller organisms that learned to combine synergistically, is likely to have artifacts from that union like our cellular organelles or bacteria in the gut.
Evolution is likely to exist in any self-replicating lifeform whether created through abiogenesis or sentient-made.
Any instance of life is likely to have an identifiable ecosystem.
And survival strategies like predation or parasitism, which have virtually no dependence on the nature of Earth-based life, is likely to be mirrored in any evolving ecosystem.
In my view, bacteria are a Turing machine of life.
Anything we're likely to ever say is or could be alive can be duplicated, overall structure, strategy, and ecosystem, with genetically engineered bacteria, an appropriate environment, and appropriate rescaling of space and time.
Be them computer viruses or green women from Orion.
Your concerns about the Anthropic viewpoint are in my view misplaced.
It seems that if the conditions permit certain strains of bacteria to live for a while, that almost guarantees that a million years later the planet would be covered with bacteria perfectly adapted for the environment.
The harsher conditions and greater difficulty pulling energy out of the environment might result in equilibrium being reached at a much less active biosphere than on Earth, but it seems almost inevitable.
I guess the critical question is how realistic is it that bacteria have survived the trip from Earth to Mars on the backs of meteorites?
I'm interested as to how you come up with this conclusion - what are the facts that indicate a low probability?As far as I am aware we know very little about abiogenesis - all we have are a few models describing how life might have started and until we know more, how can we say whether the probability of life on Mars at some point is low or high?The reason we care about whether life existed on Mars is that it might tell us a bit more about how life started on Earth.
There's really so little we know about conditions on Mars round about the time life started on Earth but it might be reasonable to assume there were some similarities - certainly there is strong evidence of significant amounts of water at some time.Unless you think that the creation of life was a magical and/or incredibly unlikely event on Earth, there are good reasons for thinking that finding life on Mars might not be so unlikely.
They're a bit late to the party...http://www.shot.com/docs/Newsdesk/Press\%20Release\%20Library/MarsSHOT.pdf
Terraforming is ridiculously inefficient compared to just building colonies out in space.
Why tie up such large quantities of useful resources just to provide a surface to live on and mass to provide gravity, when for a fraction of those resources you can put a lot more people into space-based colonies and provide mass by spin?I predict that if we ever do colonize off-world, planetary colonization will be an amusing sideline as opposed to where the bulk of people live.
There are too many advantages to space-based habitats and too many disadvantages to sitting on a planet that isn't Earth.
they're waiting for a reason.
The reason is obvious!
As we are destroying the planet we live on we should pass life onto the next rock along, just like the intelligent life forms of Venus did way back when.
+1 Hypocritical "science"
    Mars is dead because it's magnetic field stopped after it's cores cooled.
When a planet has no magnetic field, charged particles from the sun bombard the planet stripping the atmosphere.
Mars' surface gets nasty amounts of radiation from the sun.
If we could find a way to heat the cores again we could grow anything we wanted on the surface in 20 million years or so.
"If we just look at empirical facts, the probability of finding life twice in the same solar system is not huge.
Hey Eienstien, that's not an emprical fact.
It's not even a statistic, it's an anecdote, a single data point from a virtually infinite population of solar systems.
...it's "bacteria" dammit, "bacteria"!
"Bacteria" is already plural to begin with!
!1!Dang...
What isn't said is that water vapour is a far more efficient green house gaz than carbon dioxide.
But first thing first, we need to engineer a bacteria that will survive in the harsh environment of Mars and grow into its soil, to release frozen CO2 and water.
Once enough of both are present in the atmosphere, we'll be able to introduce plant that survive harsh, desert conditions.
Finding the right bacteria is the only tough thing.
Once we have it, seeding it is a matter of sending a rocket to the red planet.
Once started, the process would have to reach a point where it can sustain itself.
Its a matter of starting back the ecosystem that once rose began on Mars.
Having the global temperature of the planet being elevated by only 1-2 Celsius degree could melt some more underground water, adding to the green house effect.
This wouldn't be instantaneous, but it would mostly be done free of any mankind intervention except at the beginning.
After a couple hundred years the condition will be fair enough to introduce plants and bugs, the air would start to become breathable.
Its a long term process, but it can be done, fairly easily.
The "gardening" task wouldn't have to be accomplish until many hundred years, and we can hope some technology to get to Mars fairly easily will have been invented.
What about bacteria that we have eventually brought there on Mars' surface, also against all possible care to avoid that?Maybe bacteria or other forms of life 'catched' during the trip and then landed in one of the relatively many exploration missions?For what we know, we might have unwillingly brought life on Mars.
There is no water?
Who says there must be for a different sort of life?For what we know that's how maybe life was brought on earth ever, maybe by Martian exploration missions billions of years ago..........
