tcd004 writes "Wilson Bentley began photographing snowflakes in 1885, and managed to immortalize more than 5,000 crystals before his death in 1931.
Now his images are widely recognized and highly sought after.
At the age of 19, 'Snowflake' Bentley jury-rigged a microscope to a bulky bellows camera and took the first-ever photograph of a snowflake.
Photography then, particularly microphotography, was much closer to science than art.
In a 1910 article published in the journal Technical World, he wrote, 'Here is a gem bestrewn realm of nature possessing the charm of mystery, of the unknown, sure richly to reward the investigator.
" The video embedded at the link above touches on another long-forgotten piece of history: a sketch of the photographers who captured arial views of assemblages of tens of thousands of soldiers returning from WW-I, carefully choreographed and arranged to form a Liberty Bell, a Stature of Liberty, a US flag... as forgotten as the origin of the WW-I term razzle-dazzle.
Sayeth thy worst to this befuddled reader of text.
Ariel: A character in "The Tempest".
Also "The Little Mermaid".Aerial: existing or living or growing or operating in the airArial: A font from Monotype.
Ninnle was able to do so much, even back then.Ninnle Linux...the choice of a Ninnle generation.
Follow the "snowflakes" link and look at the bottom of the page:Copyright/Public domain works
Wilson Bentley did not copyright his photographs and thus they are in the public domain and free to use for any purpose.
HOWEVER
No materials or images from this or any other website may be resold in any form print or electronic.
The Public Domain status does not give you the right to resell material unless you have access to the original source and permission from the owner to reproduce the material.
Any published works of Public Domain material is only "Royalty free" if explicitly stated.WTF?
Someone just doesn't understand what Public Domain really is.
It's not a grammar note, but this link hammergallery.com to the human Statue of Liberty thing would've been nice to include.
Maybe tomorrow we can hear about Charles Dickens.
For those wondering how wild colors and stripes on ships would hide them from U-Boats -- it didn't.
It made it hard for the U-Boat captains to properly evaluate their targets.
The colors and pattern would disrupt the length, angle, and speed clues seen though binoculars at a distance, and through the periscope when preparing to fire torpedoes.
Radar didn't exist during WWI, so U-Boats cruised on the surface with lookouts who could eyeball ships or ship smoke at 10 miles, maybe 20 on a good day.
Given their 15-18 knot surface speed k12.nc.us and 6-8 knot submerged speed, the U-Boat now had only 30 minutes or so to get into proper position ahead of the approaching ship -- about 4000-6000 yards 2-3 nautical miles ahead and to one side of the approaching target.
WWI German torpedoes wikipedia.org could travel 6600 yards at 36 knots, for a max run time of just over 5 minutes.
A target ship moving at 12 knots would move 400 yards in a minute.
A 600 foot ship travels it's length in only 30 seconds.
It's this tiny window that the Razzle-Dazzle would screw up.
If the U-Boat captain guessed wrong on the ships movement due to painted false bow waves and extra bow/stern lines, the firing solution would be bad.
Remember that the ship view from the U-Boat was usually against cloudy skies of some sort in the North Atlantic.
Add in the blue haze with distance, and the yellows, purples, and pinks start to blur into the background blue-gray sky.
Now think of that sight through a wet periscope a few feet above the water, and you get the idea.
WWII had a brilliant camoufalge example in the bizarre sounding Pink Spitfires airplane-pictures.net used for reconnaissance ipmsstockholm.org.
The pink shade was selected to blend against the just-past-sunset twilight sky and clouds when those aircraft flew, and it was very effective.
Sayeth thy worst to this befuddled reader of text.I think you meant "thine" that which belongs to thee.Also, it's "wurst", not "worst".
Speakers of Ye Olde English were big on sausages.
And ale.
Lots of ale.
And wenches, of course.
I'm wondering who this advertiser yfrog.com thinks they're going to make money off of here at slashdot.Just saw it to the right of the /.
homepage.
Ðu ðinum broðrum to banan wurde, heafodmægum.
Ðæs ðu in helle scealt werhðo dreogan.
op3rating systems, Shall we?
OK! triumphs would soon goat.cx
Do you work for them or something?I mean, do you seriously suppose that nobody knows how advertising works on the internet?
The ad is not on slashdot, it was targeted at you personally because your browser reported that you have been browsing sites that the ad server associates with you having an interest in scantily clad models..AdBlockPlus ffs!
being GAY NIIGERS.
much as Windows Myself.
This isn't goat.cx
It would have been nice to see how they looked.
As a photographer, I've been a fan of Snowflake Bentley for a long time.
His contemporary counterpart is Ken Libbrecht.
caltech.edu
In the linked video, at 1:44 the narrator says Gallileo said "I'm only as good as those shoulders I've stood on before," which nearly had me rolling around on the floor laughing.
I think he's trying to reference Newton's statement "If I have been able to see further than others, it is because I have stood on the shoulders of giants.
Two Books by Wilson "Snowflake" Bentley:
Snowflakes in Photographs amazon.com
Snow Crystals amazon.com
Three books about Wilson "Snowflake" Bentley:
The Snowflake Man: A Biography of Wilson A. Bentley amazon.com
My Brother Loved Snowflakes: The Story of Wilson A. Bentley, the Snowflake Man amazon.com
Snowflake Bentley amazon.com
If you happen to be in London, take a walk down the Thames and you'll see HMS Belfast in her dazzle
http://www.edwud.com/photos/hms\_belfast.jpg edwud.com
It's said that no flake is equal to another, which is amazing de per se.But I'm intrigued by the constant symmetry.I can understand crystals and why they form natural patterns, like prisms or cubes, but given that everyone is different why an arm or leg is equal to the other?
Maybe they form together hence they grow identical and then split somehow?Any geologist or spelunker in the room?
I don't really think Snowflake Bentley has been "long forgotten", as the summary implies.
Our homeschooled children just finished a unit study on him a few weeks ago which doesn't prove anything of course except that he's still well known enough for there to be unit studies made available on him....In fact, a book about him, appropriately titled Snowflake Bentley amazon.com won the Caldecott medal as recently as 1999!
Töflunum skal kyngja heilum, ær má hvorki mylja né tyggja.
Geymið i upprunalegum umbúðum til varnar gegn raka og ljósi.
"Pink" and "broken outlines" still works, note that Stealth aircraft are black to appeal to aircrew.
Black isn't optimal for the night ops required by stealth systems, which is why WWII night fighters were often a lighter color.Factory stealth camo:http://www.fas.org/man/dod-101/sys/ac/f-117-camo.jpg fas.org
No, "thy" is quite correct here, although "sayeth" isn't.
The singular imperative quite boringly had no ending in Early Modern English or late Middle Engish -- whichever the OP was going for.
"Thine" was the original form, and over time came only to be used before words starting with a vowel or when standing alone as "mine" still is and "thy", a shortened form, was used before consonants and eventually took over as the sole adjectival form as "my" still is.
I read about this once.
Basically the shape of a snowflake is determined by the exact conditions over the course of the formation of the snowflake.
This is why finding two identical snowflakes is so unlikely.
That being said, apparently the vast majority of snow flakes aren't symmetrical.
It's just that they aren't pretty so no one posts pictures of them.
According to this site  run by a Caltech physics prof, its got amazing info and pictures of snowflakes, "The most common snow crystals by far are the irregular crystals.
These are small, usually clumped together, and show little of the symmetry seen in stellar or columnar crystals.
"In any case, the reason for the "perfect" symmetry that you can find it, "As the crystal becomes larger, however,  branches begin to sprout from the six corners of the hexagon this is the third stage in the diagram at right.
Since the atmospheric conditions e. g. temperature and humidity are nearly constant across the small crystal, the six budding arms all grow out at roughly the same rate.
http://snowflakebentley.com/snowflakes.htm snowflakebentley.com
In addition to the pink spitfires, there were pink ships: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mountbatten\_pink wikipedia.org WikipediaA couple of the photos in the "razzle dazzle" article were of WWII ships and not WWI as implied.
Razzle Dazzle itself was not an official term used by the US Navy and I don't believe the Royal Navy either, albeit I'm less sure of that.
Fans of old photos should look up the classic survey of the San Francisco earthquake, which were taken by kite-borne cameras.Oh, and Linux fans will want to check out S.S. War Penguin at the razzle-dazzle link.
A microphotograph is a very small photo.
Like the micro dots spys used to send under postage stamps or the flaps of envelopes.
A photomicrograph is a photo taken through a microscope.
I think he took photomicrographs or micrographs.
Bentley donated the original glass plates to the Buffalo Museum of Science a city known for snow itself, though Bentley did most of his work in Vermont as far as I know.
They have many of them scanned, and include data about each photo as well.
See it here.
sciencebuff.orgI'm from Buffalo and have been to the museum countless times; after learning about Bentley I am always amazed that they don't capitalize on it with some sort of exhibit.
Seems like it would be a nice attraction to a museum that otherwise seems to be having trouble encouraging attendance and keeping up the collections.
I imagine there's a number of slashdotters who can afford an "escort" like that.
I hear those guys like to buy those girls gifts for some reason...
Dazzle and the whole underlying idea is neat.
I have no idea why there's a link to it in the summary, which is ostensibly about snowflake photos.
Or, wait, was it Liberty Bell infantry formations?The editors aren't even trying anymore.
No doubt this material would have been of enormous use to poor Dr Max Box and his quest for two identical snowflakes.
They truly are beautiful.
I have a collection that has been handed down to me, and I can tell you first-hand that they are very intricate and detailed - and each is one of a kind; some very beautiful, and others not so attractive but still incredible to look at.
