_EOE_timothy
Matt\_dk writes "Spectacular satellite images suggest that Mars was warm enough to sustain lakes three billion years ago, a period that was previously thought to be too cold and arid to sustain water on the surface, according to research published today in the journal Geology.
Earlier research had suggested that Mars had a warm and wet early history but that between 4 billion and 3.8 billion years ago, before the Hesperian Epoch, the planet lost most of its atmosphere and became cold and dry.
In the new study, the researchers analysed detailed images from NASA’s Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter, which is currently circling the red planet, and concluded that there were later episodes where Mars experienced warm and wet periods.
_EOE_Anonymous1
but how is dis gonna help get me my free healthcare?
_EOE_Anonymous2
Mars is just like my ex?
_EOE_Dr\_Ken
Until we go there and see.
Interesting idea though.
_EOE_Anonymous3
Taking images of Mars is fine, but if they start taking pictures of Uranus you should call the police.
_EOE_aristotle-dude
I'm probably going to get modded down or flamed for being a heretic for daring to question modern scientific orthodoxy but here is goes.
How are these dates determined?
What the the reference point?
In the classic scientific method, you have to have a known value as a reference or control.
What is this reference or control used to calculate these date?
Has this reference point/control been verified through the scientific method or is it based on supposition to support a hypothesis?
Contrary to what the "internet" likes to tell you, many people question what scientists say because they want to see actual proof to support the claims rather than just additional layers of theories and educated "guesses".
_EOE_Anonymous4
At first I thought it was another one of those "AMAZING NEWS!
MARS HAD WATER!
" which I've been reading for years now.
_EOE_Anonymous5
Europa may well be warm and wet under the layer of ice.
In fact Europa probably is, and might in fact harbor life.
Can we please forget about Mars?
Mars sucks because we keep going there and not really finding anything of importance.
I am tired of Mars, there are other, more interesting places to explore.
_EOE_Anonymous6
What is so special about humans manipulating measuring equipment versus robots?
This notion that we must send people into space is just romantic.
_EOE_Anonymous7
Wow, you seem terribly defensive over what is a pretty reasonable question.
This is slashdot, you are allowed to ask things here...Anyways, from what I understand and this is in no way my field, they usually date these sorts of things by observing what kind of geological features are on top.
If a crater has numerous smaller craters in it, then you know the larger crater is older.
With the crater distribution they can make pretty reasonable estimates about the age of something.
Similar methods techniques could use other forms of erosion.Dating like this obviously isn't exact, and you'd have to ask a geologist for more details on the accuracy and techniques.
For that matter, I haven't read TFA so I don't know that this is exactly how it was done.
If you are really curious, I suggest you RTFA, and read any papers these scientists have/will release on their findings.
_EOE_Anonymous8
So.. Mars is the best candidate for terraforming tests?
_EOE_Anonymous9
So would 'global warming' have prevented this type of disaster?
_EOE_mcatrage
Um questioning science honestly is something people like.
Denying science or questioning science via misinformation would make you a heretic.
_EOE_locallyunscene
FTFA:The researchers determined the age of the lakes by counting crater impacts, a method originally developed by NASA scientists to determine the age of geological features on the moon.
The scientists are unsure how long the warm and wet periods lasted during the Hesperian epoch or how long the lakes sustained liquid water in them.So to answer your question the moon is the reference point.
It has large error bars, but it's the best we have until we can send radiometric dating to these areas.
Crater Counting wikipedia.org
_EOE_Chris_Burke
Contrary to what the "internet" likes to tell you, many people question what scientists say because they want to see actual proof to support the claims rather than just additional layers of theories and educated "guesses".And the people who are legitimately intellectually curious rather than simply delighting in taking jabs at the "scientific orthodoxy" don't universally phrase their questions as "Do you know what you're talking about or are you making shit up that supports your preconceived notions?
""How do they determine those dates?
" is a fine question, one I am curious about as well.
"Gee, in the scientific method I'm used to, you have to have a known reference.
Do they have one?
Have they been following the scientific method?
" kinda makes you sound like the kind of person you are implying you aren't.
Maybe you're just being defensive, or using modding reverse-psychology.
But really, just leave that part out.
_EOE_Anonymous10
From TFA:"The researchers determined the age of the lakes by counting crater impacts, a method originally developed by NASA scientists to determine the age of geological features on the moon.
More craters around a geological feature indicate that an area is older than a region with fewer meteorite impacts.
In the study, the scientists counted more than 35,000 crater impacts in the region around the lakes, and determined that the lakes formed approximately three billion years ago.
_EOE_ArsonSmith
3.8 billion years is a long ways for humans to time travel and see.
guess we'll just have to continue to make educated guesses off the data provided by the rovers and current orbital observers.
_EOE_Bruce_Dawson
This question got modded as insightful?
I think the poster should have to read the article before having comments modded as insightful.
From the article:
They don't go into a lot more detail than that -- it's not a scientific paper -- but that at least answers your first question.
Asking for more details is reasonable but asking those questions actually requires some effort.
Questioning scientists intelligently is more than just speculating about their possible failures without reading what they've said.
_EOE_elrous0
Even if Europa does contain such life and that is still a VERY big "if", the effort to pinpoint it and drill down to it would be a helluva lot more trouble than sending any little probe to Mars.
That's *way* beyond NASA's budget or ambitions.
Admittedly, it would be no more or less pointless than any of their other money-sinks, but don't hold your breath.
_EOE_elrous0
But what have you done for us LATELY?
_EOE_sznupi
And we can't explore both...why exactly?
plus mission to Europa is being worked on; though it will be not an easy featAs a matter of fact, why do you want to limit us to Europa?
Why do you dismiss Mars outright?
there are still those weird methane emissions we have to sort out; and possibility of subsurface water Also, what makes you think Europa is more likely to harbor life than Ganymede, Callisto, high atmosphere of Venus or even Enceladus?Mars has one big advantage of being relatively easy to get there too.
_EOE_Sir\_Lewk
You must be new here... ;Unfortunately, not reading TFA is pretty par for the course here.
Comments like this get modded up because often the moderators haven't RTFA either.
"Playing a martyr to get easy modpoints" seems to be getting pretty popular as well.
note: I'm not accusing the GP of karma whoring... at least intentionally
_EOE_Anonymous11
If u think the sun as a dimming candle, the region around mars could holding life back then, when the sun was hotter.
_EOE_Anonymous12
"Contrary to what the "internet" likes to tell you, many people question what scientists say..."It's just that many people are to lazy to go look for answers to those questions, and in many cases understanding the answers requires an education in science, or at least requires a lot of time spend reading background material meaning the answers don't fit in the forum.Now if only many people would be so skeptical about politics as they are about science.
_EOE_Anonymous13
And what is wrong with wanting to send people into space?
When you take a vacation from work, why do you travel?
You could stay home and look at pictures of the places that you want to see.
It is human nature to want to explore and do it first hand.
It is the same reason that people climb Everest, go to the north or south pole, dive deeper &amp; deeper into the oceans and travel to all the most remote locations on the earth.
Yes, we could just send robotic planes &amp; subs to those locations, but then we would miss out on so much.
I think that the day that the human race loses that urge to explore what is around the next corner is the day that the human race will start the decline to extinction.
_EOE_BESTouff
Don't think so.
But maybe the Earth will be like Mars once we have completed our "pollute-everything-you-can" task.
_EOE_Chris_Burke
No, we can't forget about mars, because we still have a crap-ton of stuff left to learn about it.
So much so that just about everything we do there results in us learning something new.
Hell, just a day or two ago, I learned that the Spirit rover trying to work its way free from some sand had revealed sulfate deposits.
And that was quite literally just scratching the surface.As others have pointed out, Europa missions are in the works, but are quite a bit harder to do than Mars, especially if you think the interesting stuff lies underneath the ice.
Just think about the effort that went into the Mars rovers, then imagine working out how to design a lander that can drill through the ice, maneuver underneath it, and then somehow communicate with an orbiter through the ice.
And then once you've designed and built it, it will still take a long time to actually reach Jupiter.In the meantime we've got the Mars Science Laboratory planned for launch in 2011, and if it's half as successful at its mission as Spirit and Opportunity were at theirs, we're going to learn a ridiculous amount about the red planet.
_EOE_CRCulver
Or Mars will become more like the Earth once terraforming is initiated, even if it's just local changes under domes instead of the complete transformation of the planet portrayed in science-fiction like Kim Stanley Robinson's  Red Mars amazon.com .
Now we can present to environmentalist-minding people a conundrum: what's better, an arid lifeless planet, or a planet that's polluted but life-sustaining?
_EOE_Ephemeriis
?Basically, they're counting craters.The idea is that everything in the solar system is being steadily bombarded by random bits of debris.
More craters means that something has been exposed to the elements for a longer amount of time.In this case...  If you have a once-lakebed that's now covered with craters, it must have been a while since there was water in it.No, it isn't perfect.
But it isn't too horrible either.And, of course, the numbers will be refined as more/better data and measurements become available.
_EOE_oldwarrior
KHAN!
_EOE_Anonymous14
so that you don't lost its ea8lYier goat.cx
_EOE_dragmyfeet
This notion that we must send people into space is just romantic.The romanticism of the adventure is one of the strongest motivators of exploration.
Take that away, and it's just work.Besides, there are practical reasons for sending humans into space.
One day, in order for the human species to survive, we will have to move off this rock and travel to other regions of our galaxy.
We might as well start our baby steps now.
_EOE_Abcd1234
So would 'global warming' have prevented this type of disaster?Uh, no.
Or do you really believe global warming would've magically allowed Mars to hold on to its atmosphere?
_EOE_frith01
No.
The problem with mars is that it lacks the gravity to keep gaseous particles bound to it's atmosphere, such that the solar wind removes a really small \% of it's atmosphere annually.
_EOE_Daniel_Dvorkin
I'm probably going to get modded down or flamed for being a heretic for daring to question modern scientific orthodoxyAh, the classic cry of the rebel without a clue.Listen up, kid:  you are not an iconoclast.
You are not boldly speaking truth to power.
You are not Martin Luther nailing his theses to the cathedral door.
You are not a special snowflake.Everyone who has ever worked in this project has thought of, and answered, every single one of your questions long ago.
And those answers are easily available with a small amount of digging, which you would do if you had any interest in the actual answers instead of just self-aggrandizing puffery.
_EOE_kj\_kabaje
the photo shows liquid exchange between craters.
Couldn't this be something apart from water?
_EOE_SnarfQuest
So, the aliens have successfully stolen all of the water from Mars as reported in thousands of lousy science fiction movies and TV dramas.
Is the Earth next on their list of planets to steal the water from?
I mean, it's not like you could possibly manufacture your own water by taking a couple of common elements in the universe, like hydrogen and oxygen, and combine them using a stupid trick like fire.
_EOE_Anonymous15
Our ancestors were the original inhabitants of the Red Planet who seeded life here after determining their home world was doomed to destruction massive asteroid impact is my guess.
Sorry, too much Clarke and Heinlein as a kid I suppose.
_EOE_khallow
?We do it better.
_EOE_Anonymous16
Because people can wander around navigating the terrain a lot better and quicker.
Now imagine the person is in fact a geologist.
They can immediate analyze what they are seeing, move around looking for interesting things, all the time E.g.
"Ooh, that's an interesting rock".
WHACK. "Hmm, look at that...".
Now compare that to an incredibly slow robot that has to inch around, take a picture, send data home, have it processed here, wait, wait, wait.
Experts here decide to move the robot 2 feet to the left.
wait wait... Robots can't jump into craters or climb hills without massive planning, analysis and Earth based simulations.
That takes weeks.
Geo Joe can just wander off and start his science work.
_EOE_Anonymous17
Everyone knows that all the water came from Mars to Earth - that's why it rained for 40 days and 40 nights.
_EOE_FreeFull
The Sun is actually outputting more energy right now than it was back then
_EOE_Anonymous18
Simple misunderstanding of the scientific method.
It is designed to make educated guesses and see if the data collected by a properly designed experiment bears them out.
Science then describes the relationship of the data to the educated guess us scientists call this guess a "hypothesis", by the way in what's called "Experimental Results" or a "Conclusion".
Proof is outside of the domain of Science.
The word "proof" should only be used in relation to mathematics or formal logic.That having been said, I too am interested in how they determined the age of the lakes.
It sounds like they used spacial density of meteorite impacts within the bodies of the lakes, compared that to the surrounding surface, and extrapolated from there.
Not sure if that's correct, though, or the validity of the method they used.
_EOE_osu-neko
"Channel connecting depressions in bottom right providing clear evidence of liquid exchange between depressions.
"Around here, we call that a "river"... XD  Most lakes have one or two connecting them to other bodies of water.
_EOE_hesaigo999ca
I agree, it's not because you have an engineering degree that you know so much about something that you have never had contact with, as well they are using earth type examples to template off of, thinking there could never be any similar thing that would cause water like patterns in the sand, so it must be water, what about liquid gasses...they are liquid too, but not water...anyways, I lost interest in what they were doing a long time ago....when I saw some of the presumptions they made about so many space things.
Try asking about dark matter!
_EOE_prometx42
...aaaaaaand...now we're safe from terror...
_EOE_Fluffeh
Yeah, but if you sent a human with enough food and resources for a 3 month mission, what do you reckon the chances are that they will still be around doing the same thing six years later?
Robots might indeed be slower, but on a cost and support basis, they utterly hands down smash any human in a support scenario.
Also, the rovers touched down in a module around the size of a small car from memory.
Also the support habitat didn't need to move with the robot.
Lastly, why do you think really makes something better just because it's faster?
A lot of things take many sets of eyes to notice.
The slow "move left, move left" scenario you mentioned allows a multitude of people to look at data while it's moving left.
That gives a lot of time for a lot of people to say "No, wait, what's that?".
With one person rushing around like a crazed excited scientist, just how much of that do you think will be missed?
_EOE_ITJC68
That is what they are.
Educated guesses.
The scientist gets some information and builds a consensus on a rough time frame.
They could be off by a million years but close enough when you are talking billion years.
Carbon dating probably couldn't work either because of the differences in atmosphere.
It would be cool to send humans to Mars to say we did it and bring back tangible proof like we did for the moon in the 60's.
NASA has been wasting alot of money on the shuttle these days and needs to get the next vehicle ready now.
Relying on the Russians to transit to and from the ISS is inexcusable for this country.
Then on to the moon and build a station on the moon.
At first unmanned but eventually setup to be manned like we currently do with the ISS.
The only issues would be meteor strikes or significant failure that would prevent astronauts from escaping if there was a life threatening issue.
_EOE_geekoid
A Most people question scientists because the conclusion from studies are different them the sacred cows.B Most people wouldn't understand the dataC " based on supposition to support a hypothesis?
" this seldom lasts long.D Your question are all good one, the type of questions a 5 year old asks.
That's not an insult, 5 year olds ask the best questions.Unlike  a 5 eyar old, you could easily get the answers to those question, so I won't hold your hand.
_EOE_dscaife
Aha! No, you want room 12A, next door.
_EOE_Anonymous19
If you were actually interested in those questions instead of perfecting your Giordano Bruno impersonation, you might have found the following information a single click beyond TFA:For further information please contact:Colin SmithPress OfficerImperial College LondonEmail: cd.smith@imperial.ac.uk
