_EOE_kdawson
Dr La writes "Two metal objects, one cylindrical and a smaller round one, crashed near Buren Soum in the Tuv province of Mongolia, in an empty field, on 19 February.
They are parts of an American Delta II rocket stage (nr.
35939, 2009-052C) that launched the military STSS Demo 1 &amp; 2 satellites in September 2009.
Both articles linked above say that the larger of the two objects is 7.5 meters in diameter, but in this photo it looks more like 7.5 feet.
It is marked with the serial number '02728.
' (The military STSS program is intended for space-based detection and tracking of missiles.
) In the months leading up to the February 19 orbital decay over Mongolia, the fall of the rocket stage was followed by amateur satellite trackers.
Based on their final orbit determinations just hours before the decay, the decay must have occurred near 3:32 UTC on February 19.
_EOE_Anonymous1
It hit me on the head dammit!
_EOE_Anonymous2
Sanford and Son in Mongolian?
_EOE_Anonymous3
This is one of the few cases where a space tether isn't the best option for disposal of space debris as this object was much too large to burn up in the atmosphere.
With electrodynamic tethers, you can de-orbit debris although I would imagine that it would be fairly difficult to control where it deorbits.
This kind of debris is probably best dealt with by using a space tether to raise the orbit before the satellite becomes non-functional.
Although in the case of rocket stages like the ones that apparently landed in a field, a few explosive charges to break the object into more manageable pieces before it re-enters dangerously might be in order.
_EOE_BitZtream
Not at a precise moment in time.
"Probably occurred near 3:25, and 3:45 too, and probably yesterday, and the day before and the day before and pretty much the entire time between when the fuel stopped producing thrust and the time it hit the ground.
_EOE_Animats
It seems surprising that the tank isn't crushed, but other tanks have come down from space ecoble.com without being crushed flat.
_EOE_1_a_bee
I'm no expert in spaceships and such, so all I can go on are the linked articles.
This passage from the Mongol News, however the only article I could find that mentions anything about a Delta rocket is not terribly trust inspiring:According to a team comprising specialists from defense, emergency and astrology, who inspected the object, the two objects described by local people as meteoroids, were parts of U.S delivery rocket Delta-2.
I for one would take this with a pinch of salt.
Especially if it comes from an astrologer, or from one who can't tell one from an astronomer.
_EOE_Anonymous4
It seems the UB post has been slashdotted.The squashed thing hasn't disturbed the ground at all.
I wouldn't expect a crater but a few displaced rocks would be expected.
Thats what happened on Mars when the rover backshells impacted anyway.
So maybe somebody dragged it to the site where the pictures were taken.
It certainly looks like it came down with a hell of a thump.Also the sphere beside the squashed thing looks like it would have either been previously inside or attached to the larger object, or it would have rolled and bounced away.
The picture looks somewhat staged for that reason.Definitely orbital or launcher debris though.
_EOE_Anonymous5
A few years back, when I was living in Puerto Rico, I had to take care of my uncle's dog for a while.
He was a big Golden Retriever and his name was Sasu.
After about 3 days, I was extremely turned on and without a boyfriend, so this dog in my pussy seemed like a pretty good idea.One day, I decided to go for a walk and take the dog with me.
I was conveniently wearing a skirt and once we reached a pretty secluded street, I pulled up my skirt and got on all fours.
At first the dog just sniffed my butt around but once he got the idea, he got on top of me and started humping my butt through my panties.
He kept banging against my clit and my juices were flowing to pretty much everywhere.
I didn't let him inside me yet because I was too afraid.
I mean, think about it.
That's pretty fucking gross.But anyways.
Whenever I got back home, I sat on the front porch.
My uncle had come back and was ready to pick up the dog but he was inside talking to my sister.
My uncle told me to stay outside with Sasu for a while, so I did.
While we were out there, I was sitting on a bench with my legs spread open and Sasu kept trying to stick his nose in my crotch.
Usually, I'd push his face away and close my legs, but I was extremely wet and was dripping everywhere.
So I let Sasu lick it up.
Since I had never been eaten out before, I really didn't know that what I was doing was sexual in the least, but I realized that it felt really good and was only making me wetter.
Even after I came Sasu was still licking it all up and the front of my skirt was soaked in a combination of my pussy juice and Sasu's saliva.
Once I had to go back inside, I just twisted my skirt to the side and went to my room to change.
_EOE_Anonymous6
from that rocket makes its way into Chinese appliances that we buy at Wal-mart.
_EOE_Anonymous7
On February 19th Mongolia declared war on the US after a missile attack that left one yak dead and several others startled.
On February 20th Mongolia surrendered to the US and demanded war reparations totaling 20 billion dollars as well as one yak and roughly 10 gallons of milk lost from the startled yaks.
_EOE_Anonymous8
That title is just a tiny bit sensationalist... I had images failed launch flashing through my mind.
A final stage dropping to earth was a bit of a disappointment :-/
_EOE_Anonymous9
I guess you mean "Steptoe and Son", the original.
_EOE_oldhack
This just might bring forth the Ghingis Khan II.
Ain't that how the Ghingis Khan Classic came about?
_EOE_Anonymous10
Interesting that the teaser lists that the rocket fell in an empty field.
Mongolia is high ranked among the lowest population density in the world 1, and home to a large part of the Gobi Desert - it would be pretty amazing if the rocket did NOT hit an empty field there.As someone who has actually been there a few years back, pretty much all fields are either empty with random horses grazing, or littered with old Russian 60's farming equipment in decay, oh, and I see the websites are 1 hosted in Mongolia; 2 not surprisingly slashdottedNo offence against Mongolia, I love the country and the people, best wishes to all friends at the Mongolian Technical University from my stay there1 http://www.worldatlas.com/aatlas/populations/ctydensityl.htm
_EOE_Anonymous11
Wow, that was a near thing!
Good thing this landing occurred in this empty field, otherwise it might have.... uhhhh.... fallen in the next empty field?
_EOE_Anonymous12
Even metal bounces after a ~200 kilometer fall
_EOE_Anonymous13
The irony.
_EOE_Dunbal
On February 21st the United States refused to acknowledge the surrender of Mongolia, claiming that for too long yaks have been infringing on copyrights and patents owned by American cows on mooing and milk production respectively.
It announced that yaks are the hallmark of rogue, terrorist nations such as Mongolia, demanded that Mongolia switch its bovines immediately to American cows which could be purchased at reasonable rates from America or it's European partners, and further demanded that Mongolia license the rights to pay the additional fee for milk production and mooing at discounted herd rates.
Additionally the Department of Homeland Security has placed all yaks on the no-fly list.The ball is in Mongolia's court.
_EOE_physburn
Lucky it landed somewhere so remote.
On day a some
rocket parts will land somewhere with a high population
i fear.
Space Craft feeddistiller.com Feed @ Feed Distiller feeddistiller.com
_EOE_Anonymous14
In the months leading up to the February 19 orbital decay over Mongolia, the fall of the rocket stage was followed by amateur satellite trackers.
And what happens when one of these drops on Beijing?
Or Vancouver?
Or San Francisco?
I thought the flight paths were calculated so the boosters dropped in the ocean?
I used to think where they came down was no accident.
Now I'm wondering if they're just playing the odds.
_EOE_Anonymous15
I've been to Mongolia.
In the steppes and desert areas the ground is sometimes a *very* hard surface.
Also it is possible the objects bounced or rolled a few metres before coming to a stop.
There's not quite enough resolution in the pictures to tell for certain, but the lower left corner of the upper photo below where the guy is bending over to look at the debris looks a bit like there is a shallow pit and some whitish, crushed rock.
It's also February -- the ground is probably frozen.
In this picture www.mk.ru you can see patches of snow.
_EOE_nicc777
A little while ago csir.co.za, but still interesting I think.
_EOE_PapaBoojum
Space Junk updatedshe was walking all alonedown the street in the alleyher name was Sallyshe never saw itwhen she was hit by space junk
    in New York, Miami Beach
    heavy metal fell in Cuba
    Mongolia, Saudi Arabia
    on christmas eve said NORAD
    a Soviet Sputnik hit Africa
    India, Venezuela
    in Texas, Kansas
    it's falling fast Peru too
    it keeps comingand now i'm mad about space junki'm all burned out about space junkoooh walk &amp; talk about space junkit smashed my baby's headand now my Sally's dead
_EOE_Anonymous16
You do understand that you failed to tie your above post and all of the ones following it to the topic of the article, right?
It's too bad, because it could have been somewhat informative if you had deorbited your brain from whatever it is high on long enough to communicate on the same wavelength as the rest of the readers.
_EOE_newdsfornerds
So, why didn't it burn up?
Not enough velocity?
Not enough mass?
_EOE_tloh
How much do you think the Mongolians would demand for the tech transfer?
You do know enough about geography to be aware they are two separate sovereign countries, right?On the other hand,  they might value the thing a little differently than one would a tech asset.from the article:According to a team comprising specialists from defense, emergency and astrology, who inspected the object....
_EOE_Hoysala
Preferably through land-based detection and tracking of rockets.
_EOE_kimgkimg
What's up with the cannonball?
So they just happened to carry a supply of these in the truck?
_EOE_tokul
On February 20th Mongolia surrendered to the US and demanded war reparations totaling 20 billion dollars
They could also bill US for littering.
_EOE_Anonymous17
Yes, the guys who're launching rockets are really should ask them what if their rockets fall on their own heads.
What would happened if that junk killed someone?
