_EOE_Soulskill
This article at Gamasutra takes a look at how the compulsion to hoard and accumulate objects, as well as the desire to accomplish entirely abstract goals, has become part of the modern gaming mindset.
"The Obsessive Compulsive Foundation explains that in compulsive hoarders: 'Acquiring is often associated with positive emotions, such as pleasure and excitement, motivating individuals who experience these emotions while acquiring to keep acquiring, despite negative consequences.
' Sound familiar?
The 'negative consequences' of chasing after the 120th star in Mario 64 or all 100 hidden packages in Grand Theft Auto III may be more subdued than those of filling your entire house with orange peels and old cans of refried beans.
But game designers know that it's pretty damn easy to tap into this deep-rooted need to collect and accumulate.
And like happy suckers we buy into it all the time, some to a greater degree than others.
_EOE_Anonymous1
Gotta catch em all, POKEMON!
_EOE_Anonymous2
I collect first posts
_EOE_Anonymous3
They always attribute this behavior to some kind of compulsive outlier, but the the behavior is common to all humans.
And is at the root of a lot of the fruitless consumerism.
Comes from before there was culture or communication.
Comes from the lizard brain.
And probably never failed the early hunter-gatherer who didn't get penalized for keeping too may cats or a garbage-ridden apartment.
_EOE_Anonymous4
Okay, so basically this article is saying that people collect and horde in-game items because they like it and it makes them happy "positive emotions".Sort of like the way psychopaths kill because it makes them happy, lazy people are sedentary because it makes them happy, and fat people eat too much because it makes them happy.That's saying about as much as barking dogs.
_EOE_Anonymous5
Thirsty for a firsty!1!
!I'd like to thank Slashdot and Ron Malda for this opportunity.
I'd also like to give a shout out to Signal 11 and Hot Grits man for the inspiration.
I'd like to thank all of the Slashdot editors, without whose total failure at spell checking, basic grammar, and fact checking I would have long ago been too bored to keep reading this blog concentrator.
And finally, props to fellow frost posters.
Maybe you'll get 'em next time.
Keep on reaching for the stars, and keep on keepin' on.
_EOE_Anonymous6
I think it's mostly children that do crazy stuff like collect all the hidden packages.
_EOE_Tavor
So this is why I idle 24/7 in a vain attempt for a pithy sniper hat...
_EOE_ltcmus
Learning that there is such a thing as the Obsessive Compulsive Society is really the best birthday present I could have gotten.
_EOE_Anonymous7
And like happy suckers we buy into it all the time, some to a greater degree than others.Game designers are just out to reel in suckers.
Skinner boxes, treadmills, and obsessive compulsive triggers - anything to land them a pigeon.
Yup.  That's it.
It wouldn't ever be because someone wants to build something they think might be fun.
_EOE_Anonymous8
"Games are designed with lots of stuff to collect because gamers like to collect stuff.
We have no idea why, really, and lord knows we didn't try to test any hypotheses.
_EOE_mmaniaci
This is not some new thought or idea.
Its survivalism and hasn't changed since... ever. Horde it up 'cause you may not have it tomorrow, and you still gotta eat.
This trend in games is now obvious probably because of the popularity of WoW et.
al. and how our "selves" are so easily transferred to an abstract, digital realm where we can horde and collect as long as there's stuff to horde and collect.
For fuck's sake, people have been collecting and playing card games for decades.
This is incredibly un-newsworthy.
_EOE_punzada
Just you and me, you know it's my destiny
oh, you're my best friend in the world we must defend!
_EOE_jeffb_(2.718)
Oh, wait.
slashdot.org
_EOE_thetoadwarrior
Not this time, buddy.
_EOE_F34nor
Let me tell you about houses full of crap.
Multiple sets of all the armors, weapons, and huge amounts of reagents all laid out on the floor in neat grids.My pride and joy was stealing the full set of dramora armor off of the guy who helps you with corpus disease.
I made a low DPS dagger with huge magical armor damage and broke the armor off his body.
Then I knocked him out bare handed and robbed him and charmed him back to friendly.
Each item was enchanted with a variable stat increase.
All decked out I was totally unstoppable.The best hoard was all the moon sugar in the game, which I ate all at once.
When I ran and jumped it would load four or five games tiles before I hit the ground.
It never wore off before I was bored of the game.I am replaying Ultima Underworld right now on DOSBOX and am fighting my self not to hoard because items have no effect in that game really and trade is useless.
P.S. Where is the bandit's hideout behind the store room?
I cannot find it at all.
_EOE_Anonymous9
Pokemon?!
With the Poke and the man and the thing where the guy comes outta the thing and he makes a o abba zabba eh heh heh
_EOE_Anonymous10
I wouldn't particularly call this hoarding.
You're supposed to do everything you can in the game.
Just because the way they show that you've accomplished something is a digital trophy of sorts doesn't mean you're hoarding them just by getting as many of these trophies as you can.
_EOE_gringofrijolero
This is incredibly un-newsworthy.But it got a response :- And that's the name of this game.
Hoard those hits and trade 'em for ad revenue, heh,  so they think..
_EOE_maxume
I don't think I play games like Mario64 to 'collect' all the stars, I play until I think I have finished the content, the stars track that progress.
Once the game is finished, the stars don't really have any meaning or other significance.This is very similar to filling in all the answers to a crossword, not so similar to making sure my T.V.
Guide collection is complete.
_EOE_Anonymous11
I have been playing Fallout 3 for the last month or so I'll use it as an example.
I specifically purchased one of the DLC packs because it changed the ending and allowed me to explore the 2/3 of the map I completely missed in the main storyline.
Bethesda is especially good at creating compelling games that like a good book you hate to see actually end.
Games are far too expensive to justify a flat 6-10 hours of gaming, having a plethora of achievements to unlock and hundreds of places to explore prolongs the gaming experience, increases the "fun" and extends the value of the game.
I think its great that many developers are seeing the value in this.
_EOE_Anonymous12
i'd type a thoughtful reply to this article, but i'm busy playing Last Stand for the 80th time so I can get enough money for that 10th slot.
_EOE_Anonymous13
...not the game.The box.I was offered $20.For the box.And would not part with it.
...help?
_EOE_Criceratops
Somewhat relieved to hear that others had the same problem with the Elder Scrolls.
A friend of mine was watching me play and said "Why do you pick up every single alchemical ingredient like some kind of demented vacuum cleaner?
The houses in Morrowind were never large enough, I ended up using the toolset to build myself a lair for my ill-gotten loot.
My killer combo in that game was Boots of Blinding Speed + Hide of the Apostle + Daedric Crescent.
It was like Worf meets the Flash.
I'd still be playing Oblivion if it didn't crash on my system every ten to thirty minutes.
_EOE_Anonymous14
What's up with the flood of articles lately that try to psychologically deconstruct gamers and their games?
They all act like it's some big discovery that video games pander to humans' psychological traits.
All they're really saying is that people play games because they're enjoyable.
Surprise surprise.I think it's part of the whole "video game addiction awareness" crap that some groups are harping about nowadays, saying that video games cause all kinds of murder, mayhem, and familial strife.
If they can make it seem like video games are designed around some sinister theory of exploiting human psychology to mind-control the players, then they can feel justified in demonizing gaming as a whole.
_EOE_Anonymous15
This might explain the 25 sinks, 40 doors and 200 windows in my barn.Doesn't exactly help though.Anyone near Kingston ont need a Pepsi cooler?
Or a clawfoot bathtub?
Or a 3 sink stainless restaurant counter?
Or a half ton of glass panes?
_EOE_Animats
I've never had much of a desire to own stuff.
But I've never owned a broadcast TV in my whole life.
I have a DVD player and a large flat-screen display, but no antenna or cable connection.
Watching 20 minutes of commercials per hour is bad for you.
Hours a day of "consume, consume, consume" has to have an effect.
The "hoarding" mentality may come from overdosing on advertising.
_EOE_Anonymous16
Actually, what makes a psychopath kill sociopath is the more politically correct term now is their inability to truly tell right from wrong.
To them, killing a person is the same thing as stealing a candy bar.
They don't get "happy".
Their impulse is satisfied.
It may not seem like much of a difference up front, but do you get "happy" when scratching an itch?
No, but you are satisfied by doing so.
_EOE_MaizeMan
At least my pack rat nature has been channelled in digital things that can be stored on hard drives.
Sure I spend 250 dollars last month upgrading because I'd filled every drive I owned, but I'm lucky.
My dad accumulates books.
Online used book stores like abebooks are the worst thing to ever happen to my mother.
Now five or six books arrive in the mail most weeks from all over the country.
Last time I was home pretty much every open wall in the house had vanished behind bookshelves.
Hording in the digital age may still be expensive, but at least it takes up a lot less total volume in meatspace
_EOE_Anonymous17
There's a whole foundation for obsessive compulsives?
Why wasn't I informed of this?
_EOE_Anonymous18
Collecting the stars added a lot of replay value to the game.
Many of them were difficult to acquire and collecting them required a variety of tasks including: having to master some jump combo to get to the area, racing the boss at increasing speeds, and finding optimal paths through the level so you could get 50 coins in a certain time period.It is similar to playing the game through again on hard.I think I collected about 100 before getting bored.
_EOE_Goldberg's_Pants
I am an avid gamer, but can genuinely say in games I have NEVER collected all of anything.
Oh sure if I find them it's a case of "Hey, I found one!
" but I have never hunted them out, nor found them all.
Ever. Just doesn't interest me in the slightest.Collecting arbitrary stars, comics etc... In games just seems utterly pointless to me.
_EOE_jack2000
That's not true actually, a sociopath CAN tell what's right or wrong.
They aren't stupid.
Just the opposite, they do know but they don't care.
_EOE_Lemmy_Caution
There's a way in which virtual collection may actually satisfy a "need to hoard" I would correct your misspelling as "horde," but it works too well with the WoW reference in a productive way.Modern life has made a lot of once-healthy instincts unhealthy, and has taken away many of the opportunities to exercise them.
Children once would learn by exploring open spaces without a lot of adult supervision; as those spaces diminish and our fears about children's safety increase, games provide an alternative space for exploration Henry Jenkins wrote an article about games as "gendered spaces of play" for little boys in particular, since the change in the landscape has affected boys' play more dramatically than it has girls' play.
Perhaps the need to accumulate has also long outlived its usefulness in the real world: excessive consumption, planned obsolescence, the creation of fashions that motivate people to replace perfectly usable clothes and other objects, the accumulation of goods that we really don't need and often don't use, "shopping" as the way we participate in the world at large and derive satisfaction, etc.
have created a vicious cycle of waste and stress - economies that rely on growth even after the human needs of the people with money those without money aren't important to our economies except as potential labor take advantage of our instinct to accumulate to keep the cycle going.
"Virtual" accumulation lets us play that instinct out without creating waste, lets us devote more of the real world to things other than spaces to shop and accumulate.
_EOE_DJKaotica
If someone had come up to you and said "Hey, can I have a couple cardboard boxes?
I need to pack some stuff to send to a friend.
" you may have given the Xbox box to him.
In this case though, since someone offered you so much more than you may have originally thought the box was worth, your perceived value of the box has gone up.
Now you think it may be worth even more, or it's some sort of collector's item, or something like that....maybe?
_EOE_jack2000
Oh that's nothing, I have no wallpapers in my entire flat just because all of my walls are bookshelves.
Even my PC and TV are cased in the shelves and there are books all around them...
I collect mostly SciFi/Fantasy and Old Literature...
_EOE_Anonymous19
Such as these?
http://images.google.com/images?q=runescape+bank+pictures
_EOE_Yvan256
Rule 284: Deep down, everyone's a Ferengi.
_EOE_Rastl
If you're prone to obsessive behaviours then you're going to be prone to them in games as well as in real life.
I can't see how game designers are somehow bad for catering to this.
As long as the game is playable without the need to collect all the widgets then they're actually just creating extra features.Speaking as someone who is prone to obsessive behaviours I can tell you that the most idiotic flash game can 'trap' me if I'm not on my guard.
For me it isn't the need to collect widgets, it's the "One More Game" syndrome.
Win or lose, it's the need to play just One More Game.And that, dear readers, is why I won't play online games any more.
Rather than battle the temptation I'll just avoid those things that could cause me problems.
Bravo to the designers for giving people the option but I'll pass, thanks.One last thought for all of you folks who have a ton of $ITEM in your house.
After having to clear out the households of several deceased relatives I recommend that you GET RID OF YOUR CRAP!
We're doing that ourselves since we discovered first-hand just how much stuff accumulates and how much space is being filled by completely useless $ITEM.
Books have gotten cleared out to just the ones we really like, unused small appliances are gone, saved 'just in case' are gone.
We're not only doing this as a favor to whoever has to clean out our house but to actually make it more livable.
We've even got ~gasp~ empty space on the bookshelves.
_EOE_timothy
...  The Psychology of Collection and Hoarding In Basements?That might be more useful.timothy
_EOE_Anonymous20
Oh crap!
I though right and wrong was subjective.
I guess I'm a sociopath now.
_EOE_Hagar129
http://www.ncheg.org/These guys do it for a job!
Museum of play FTW!!
_EOE_Anonymous21
That damn gnome.
Now there's an achievement.
_EOE_petrus4
The need to acquire things, more than any other single thing, comes down to one basic human need; to feel as though we are, in some way, superior to our fellow man.Blizzard understood that implicitly, and three of their most successful games, Diablo, Diablo 2, and World of Warcraft, were essentially based on that principle from the ground up.A multiplayer game doesn't need complex or innovative gameplay to be compelling, at all.
All it really needs to do is provide ways for a player to think that he has a bigger dick than the other people he's playing with, and you can keep him perpetually addicted.It's not about a rat pressing a lever and getting a food pellet, at all.
It's about the rat thinking that he has bigger genitals than other rats.
_EOE_Anonymous22
You could just as easily compare collecting things in games to collecting illegal music downloads that you'll never listen to.
Same goes for having the largest collection of illegal movies that you'll never watch but you can sure brag about!
It's easy to get caught up in this stuff, but you gotta be reasonable.
At least collecting things in a game is more rewarding than collecting horrible movies that you won't watch.
_EOE_squirrelburrito
So, should I go get a doctor's note for the Pokemon Red cartridge I slaved over to 'catch' all 151 Pokemon and level them up to 50?
After the whole family, kids, no-time-to-play-games thing, I do still keep it in my jewelery box...
_EOE_Anonymous23
My clvl 88 Charzard is tea-bagging you.
What were you trying to say?
Spit it out already!
_EOE_goldaryn
I was going to say this is correlation not causation.
However, it's not even correlation.
The two aren't related.
Achievements are motivational because off of a sense of accomplishment, giving a person a positive sense of self-worth or introjected worth, external acceptance in other words.
Obsessive behaviours are not the same at all.
I can't speak for hoarders but as far as "checkers" go, it tends to be motivated by fear, from a chemical imbalance according to the medical theory, although more modern thinking now says it's due to introjects in early life.
But anyway.
Obsessive behaviours are not the same as achievement behaviours, not the same AT ALL.
Total nonsense.
_EOE_Anonymous24
When I was a sniper we didn't have much of anything, let alone a pithy hat.
If we were extremely lucky we might find a jar to piss in.
_EOE_FrostDust
A better example they could have used would be the Chaos gems from the Sonic series.
Optional items won in bonus levels, they didn't serve much of an ingame purpose until you collected all of them, but Super Sonic was kind of a gimick, but adorned your the main menu screen as a kind of trophey case.
_EOE_Anonymous25
Lazy people aren't sedentary because it makes them happy either.
They usually become depressed and unmotivated the more sedentary they are.
Fat people are often filled with shame after eating.Please read parent again.
_EOE_Anonymous26
As a sociopath, I'll back this statement up.
It's all a simple cost-benefit analysis, morality is a weird system that is a non-starter.
Now, I'm not one of those killing sociopaths - but whenever I choose to do anything it all has to do with the probability of getting caught, or the degree of the punishment should that happen.
If it's something I can manipulate and sociopath my way out of, then low risk, high benefit.
The reason why sociopaths are always bosses is that they don't have to deal with this lame right/wrong dichotomy that seems to inform the decisions of their employees, and once we understand that enough, we can use it to back the rest of you into corners.
_EOE_bigdonthedj
I have to admit to buying multiple copies of games due to memory failure of the brain.
I just give the old copy to friends.
I own over 100 Xbox360 games, 70 \% of those I don't play anymore.
20\% that I never played after buying them, and 10\% that I tend to rotate by the week or month.
My PC collection is very similar as th 360 as far as the percentages go, but the number of games is considerably higher around 250ish, possibly much higher.
I buy new games on Steam, Impulse, Direct2Drive and at Gamestop, along with other stores that may have a good deal going on.
I'm also obsessive compulsive.
I guess that makes me a freak and also a beloved customer to many game companies :  I don't mind that
_EOE_Anonymous27
The glass can be recycled and the metal can be sold to a scrap dealer.
I work for a glass company and I know that we get paid a small amount per ton of glass that we have them recycle.
This is window glass, too, with mixed amounts of tempered and untempered glass, along with various coated glasses and such.
_EOE_JimboFBX
How is this flamebait?
He brings up a good point, like seriously, the only people who can spend their time doing such a thing after beating a game are:
Likely inexperienced with games to the point they haven't realized time/reward of doing such a thing is virtually nill
Have a lot of free time on their hands where they really don't have better things to do or other obligations where they really need a game that is to the point
Do not have that much or any money to spend on a new game or other entertainment
Do not have a social partner who would scream murder if they had to watch them try to collect all those things
Have not discovered online competition or do not understand what is good about it
And that pretty much describes children.
Sure adults also fit that criteria but no one can say he is wrong when he says "mostly" children.
That certainly doesn't make him flamebait and I think it really shows how pathetic the mod is who got offended by the parent post.
_EOE_Anonymous28
I think the secret door locked is in the corner on the left of the entrance.
The game has a couple of bugs features which actually discouraged hoarding -1 nesting containers increases the chances of those items disappearing PROTIP: Don't store talismans in nested containers ;2 As you go back up levels to get the Key of Courage the more items you have the larger the tendency for them to disappear.
_EOE_Lunzo
People have been hoarding stuff as long as history has been recorded.11 The LORD said to Moses, 12 "I have heard the grumbling of the Israelites.
Tell them, 'At twilight you will eat meat, and in the morning you will be filled with bread.
Then you will know that I am the LORD your God.
13 That evening quail came and covered the camp, and in the morning there was a layer of dew around the camp.
14 When the dew was gone, thin flakes like frost on the ground appeared on the desert floor.
15 When the Israelites saw it, they said to each other, "What is it?
" For they did not know what it was.
Moses said to them, "It is the bread the LORD has given you to eat.
16 This is what the LORD has commanded: 'Each one is to gather as much as he needs.
Take an omer a for each person you have in your tent.
19 Then Moses said to them, "No one is to keep any of it until morning.
20 However, some of them paid no attention to Moses; they kept part of it until morning, but it was full of maggots and began to smell.
So Moses was angry with them.
_EOE_maglor\_83
But empty space on the bookshelf looks bad.
_EOE_Anonymous29
Bookmarked.
Just like ever other webpage I've ever surfed to.
_EOE_Astrophysician
I glanced through the comments and didn't see it, so I thought I'd mention what I know.
I just finished my junior year in college, and at my institution we took a pretty rigorous read: I can't believe I survived course in psychology.
Though it was an intro course, we got a new prof and she felt the need to cover numerous parts of the brain and detail their functions / interactions with other parts she was a cognitive scientist, so her affinity to detail in brain studies makes sense.
To make a long story short, we learned that the part of the brain responsible for hoarding is called the "right mesial prefrontal cortex.
" This part of the brain is present in everyone; genetic factors and other reasons provide for its excessive activation in some people as opposed to others.
This explains why some people hoard much more than others even though almost everyone possesses the same basic circuitry.
Furthermore, certain companies we focused on advertising companies, but the gaming industry works in this case as well intentionally focus on tapping this circuitry to make a buck.
From this, we get the McDonald's Beanie Baby rush, the Furby craze, and a host of other collectible furors we all remember.
It seems that with some collectibles Pokemon, anyone?
we just can't help ourselves.
_EOE_Kral\_Blbec
I donno how common this is, but whenever I play a game with some sort of super powerful weapon/grenades/missiles or really any type of rare/semirare ammo, I almost never use it.
I always have to save it "for when I need it".
Always waiting for the next big boss or tough spot that I really never think of using what is argueably the funnest part of most games.
Sometimes I look and realize I have had maxed out grenades or whatever for the past few hours and havent used one, despite having passed by tons that I cant pick up because... Im already maxed out.In fallout 3, I beat the game having used the shotgun, hunting rifle, and melee for 75\% of the game.
I used a total of 9 grenades the entire time, no mines.
Looking back, I realized I had over 200 grenades in my house, 100 mines, almost 3000 rounds for the minigun, 15000 for the assault rifle.
Only ever used the basics though, because I might need it... And I have to open every door/box/filling cabinet I pass.
I replayed it, using a new style forcing myself to use ONLY grenades/heavy weapons/melee.
After a while, I noticed I was drifting back to the old habits again.Partly I blame game designers that make something "seem" special or rare, and initiating that mind set of having to save.
Money/credit systems in games are usually screwed up.
The first few hours you are desperate for money, the next you are swimming in it.
In mass effect, I just started playing two days ago and have around 150,000 credits.
Every kill nets another 1500 and then the surveys of minerals are worth some 5,000 alone.
There isnt anything for me to buy anymore that I even want/need!
_EOE_blues\_shuffle
Are you giving the aforementioned goods away in striving to hoard less?
_EOE_Culture20
You know what would go well there?
More $ITEM.
_EOE_Anonymous30
Gee I guess some mod really didn't like DS9.
_EOE_Anonymous31
The first thing that comes to mind is the achievement system on Xbox Live.
While I'm not a big achievement hoarder, I have known people that HAVE to get EVERY point in EVERY game.
To the point of running around for hours in a game to get that last 10 points.
_EOE_tchdab1
I saw this news item on my iphone before driving my late-model car to my condo by the lake, which I go to on weekends to wind down from the 14 hours days I put in during the week plus weekend time remotely at the condo so that I make enough to maintain this lifestyle.I can't believe people will do all that in the game just to accumulate stuff.
_EOE_Anonymous32
You're not the only one who spent half of Morrowind picking up an object, moving your view ever so slightly to the side, then dropping said item.
Then closing the Inventory screen, cursing that it was another inch off where it needed to be, and repeating the process again.
And again.Oblivion is the only game in which I've found myself spending a pathetically long time trying to line up those fucking books so they will sit properly, or at least in some semblance of an order.
Not being able to rotate items in Oblivion so they can easily sit up on the bookshelves is a complete oversight of the game developers.
And I can't be the only person that liked to hide the bodies of people they killed on the road, underneath nearby bushes and long grass.And slightly off-topically, dragging creatures bodies to the edge of cliffs to watch them slide down.It took me a while to realise that trade is a waste of time in most cases in UU.
My map has some locations marked on it of useless crap that I've not been able to carry that I want to remember the location of so I can return to it if I decide that what I really need right now is some flasks of oil.
They were stored on my map, could you go find it for me please?
Because I really need some help to find my map.
Actually, that reminds me, you look like a likely sort, and I've lost my map, I'm wondering if I might be able to bother you to go find it for me, because I really need to find my map.
Because on my map is the locations of all the crap I might want to keep.
The locations of which are on my map, which I've lost.
Could you help me find it please?
_EOE_Anonymous33
Let me introduce you to this great website I found: www.ebay.com.au
_EOE_rtb61
The behaviour exists because we have become convinced that it will bring happiness.
Of course it does not actually bring happiness but only substitutes for a period of time because we have been convinced it 'should', up until it the idea collapses and people either successfully mature and leave it behind or it leads too inevitably psychological collapse and various psychological illnesses.
What has happened is the psychologically deviant, psychopaths and sociopath have gained positions of power and used mass media and psychological manipulation aka modern marketing to make their aberrant behaviour not only socially acceptable but desirable.
So a gross distortion of acceptable behaviour an extension of the child like behaviour of selfishness and everything is mine attitude ie.
a failure to mature into responsible caring and sharing adults, a basic element of a human society rather than a random distribution of self serving animals, dog eat dog or more accurately lizard eat lizard as dogs do actually maintain caring and sharing social groups.
_EOE_pinkushun
Before flashy effects and extreme graphics, games had real, belieivable content.Hoarding is a way for game designers not developers!
to add content that seems meaningful.
Just fill it up, baby.Hey, new research study idea: "Faux studies are contaminated by game players born and bred by bad design"
_EOE_Anonymous34
...743GB of p0rn sitting on my server at home, despite the fact that I'll never have enough time in one lifetime to view all of the 234,000 movies and 1.78 million images.When my wife finds it all I'll refer her to the Obsessive Compulsive Foundation and claim that it's not my fault, it's a deep-seated human trait that compells me to collect stuff.
_EOE_Wraithlyn
Heh.
I am just starting down that road on Fallout 3. :  Misc items for inventions in here, extraneous apparel over there.
Backup weapons and armor laid out nicely on shelves over here.
Fridge stocked with booze and purified water, and heavy weapons laid out upstairs.
Mini-nukes, my preciousss...
_EOE_turing\_m
One last thought for all of you folks who have a ton of $ITEM in your house.
The last time I threw out $ITEM I ended up needing it later at more time and expense than I wanted.
Meanwhile it costs nothing to sit in a box somewhere.
It may as well sit there as in a landfill.
Hoarding gets a bad rap.
The hoarding instinct is well honed over the centuries from when all the energy we could use was energy that crops could absorb in a year from the sun e.g.
human or literal horse power.
Making stuff was expensive.
Now every year we use the energy that was socked away in peat bogs over millions of years.
This won't last.
$ITEM won't always be easily and cheaply manufactured.
Of course, if you are sure you aren't going to use it, it's bulky, price  postage and it is depreciating rapidly, ebay is always a good option.
_EOE_Anonymous35
Does he read the books or just collect them?The something hundreds of books I have, I've read at least 2 times.
Some 5-6 or even more.
That's the primary reason that I buy books instead of borrow them from the library.
That and I can treat my books I own like ass while with library books I have to try to treat them nicely.
_EOE_Thoughts_from_Englan
For the Horde!
_EOE_TheThiefMaster
I currently have a ~1.36 TB raid 5 array 4 x "500 GB" disks because I ran out of space on the ~840 GB array 4 x "300 GB" disks.
Unfortunately a flaw in the pci bus of that machine makes it incapable of taking a gigabit network card or a second raid card, so I had to copy the data over 100 mbps ethernet.It wasn't a cheap upgrade, and the next one promises to be more expensive when it becomes necessary, thanks to the fact that if the array exceeds 2 TB I'll need to buy a "64 bit" raid card.Despite the fact that my current card advertises 48-bit LBA support, it doesn't actually seem to be capable of using more than 32-bits of that.
_EOE_Fantastic_Lad
I found in Balder's Gate, one of the last games I seriously tried to play, that I enjoyed trying to build a strong and efficient character with effective tools/weapons, but that after a while I saw the pattern of more difficult challenges increasing the demand for more powerful weapons/tools.
When the pattern became obvious to my base, automatic nature; intellectually I knew from the outset how such games were designed, I lost all interest in the game because it felt repetitive and the story was uninteresting.
I quit about a quarter of the way through.My base, automatic nature, I think, has figured out that the more effective survival technique is to learn the over-arching pattern behind a challenge and then find a way to hack the system rather than to defeat the challenge head-on directly.
--Once a pattern is understood, the need to engage in more base magpie-like behavior becomes pointless, and thus my "reward center" stops pumping happy juice into the rest of my brain.Games which DO manage to engage me forever and ever are more akin to territory-winning combat scenarios where the 'enemy' is constantly advancing.
My survival instincts, even if they recognize the old patterns, will nonetheless be stirred to action when they can predict the loss of territory and life if I take no action whatsoever.
And so my 'happy juice' center starts pumping like mad when it sees the possibility of annihilation creeping towards me across the game board.
In Balder's Gate, after a while, all I wanted to do was hang up the sword and find a nice little cottage by the sea to settle down in where I didn't have to work so hard at such a menial labor.They don't call it "Hand to Hand" combat for nothing.-FL
_EOE_SharpFang
Agreed.
It's not about collecting all the stars.OTOH, carrying the basketball ball all the way through System Shock 2 is.
_EOE_leenoble\_uk
I'm a hoarder, although I always called it completionist.
I've always wanted to find all the secret rooms and collect all the things I can to get 100\% in a game.
But the goal has to be attainable.
If it becomes a chore then what's the point?I spent more hours than I care to disclose swimming around all 3 islands in GTA San Andreas collecting those shells, and then thought "Why the fuck am I doing this, it's incredibly dull.
" and I haven't been bothered enough to finish the game.
If I can't complete it then I'm not interested.
That's why I'm totally disinterested in setting foot inside WOW, a game that it seems from the outside can never be completed.
A game that I've witnessed real people spending every spare minute practicing digital fishing in order to attain some fake skill which will enable them to do something else probably equally pointless.
I've got enough chores to get on with in the physical world without setting myself a bunch of other tasks that no-one I know will ever see the results of, or even less, appreciate.Now, can anybody tell me how to get 100\% completion on Fire &amp; Ice for the Amiga.
I got 96\% and I'm pretty sure I found all the secret rooms but that 4\% betrays the fact that I either missed one or the game is wrong.
_EOE_Anonymous36
it's better than collecting STD's
_EOE_Anonymous37
Sup dawg.
I herd you liek Mudkipz...
_EOE_brkello
Uh, I really don't think so.
I watch TV and don't have these issues.
It has more to do with people wanting to have things when times are lean.
Also, some people are competitive.
They want to have what other people have but better..the whole keeping up with the Jones' mentality.
You don't have TV channels yet you still consume movies and I am sure plenty of other items that you are not dependent on for survival.
_EOE_Yewbert
If the measure of success the game company values most is sales, and therefore the game designs that are emulated most closely in subsequent generations are the ones that sold the best, then these kinds of features that 'reel in more suckers' by playing on psychological predilections will evolve whether or not the game designers are conscious that they're using OCD triggers.
Just, as the phrase goes, sayin'.
_EOE_gpronger
My coon hound bays; it communicates even less than the barking dog based upon hims being significantly more vacuous than the average dog but is more painful due to the decibels he reaches.
Also, didn't Ford Prefect come to the conclusion that we talk and say the very, very, obvious, not because our jaws may seize-up, but because our brains may start working.
Greg
_EOE_BoberFett
I do the exact same thing.
I save that uber-weapon each time I could really use it, thinking that there may be a better point to use it later on.
I could probably save myself the headache of plinking at bosses with slingshots if I'd stop being that kind of hoarder.
_EOE_Anonymous38
For the hoard!
_EOE_stillnotelf
Or a half ton of glass panes?No, but I could use some Mercedes parts...
_EOE_Anonymous39
I knew a guy who would collect body parts off of WoW monsters, heads, hands etc.
he refused to turn them in for quest rewards..
_EOE_Veggiesama
Does anyone else find this trend of item/achievement hording to be troubling?I wish I could denigrate and demean those who waste away their online lives pursing the virtual carrots on virtual sticks, but then I remembered that I logged 40+ hours in the last two weeks trying to unlock the new spy &amp; sniper weapons in a Team Fortress 2 content expansion pack... Now I've got them, and I've played with them for at least a few hours, but now I feel no reason to play the game by myself much anymore.
I will still play if my friends ask me to, because then it's a social experience.
That said, when the next patch comes out, I might invest a few more hours in the game.Still, I think my behavior is troubling, because the amount of quality development time put into those new weapons and maps in TF2 is nowhere near the level of quality development time put into most single-player games, and I put just as much play-time into those titles.I hate seeing less innovation leading to more profitability, because that encourages developers to take the easy way out: "let's use our remaining development time to add achievements instead of new gameplay modes or side missions!
"It's also incredibly discouraging to see my hobby, which some liken to an art, to turn into a world-wide e-peen waving contest.
For some reason, I have an urge to turn off the computer and read a novel, purely as a political gesture to make myself feel better.
_EOE_Anonymous40
When I first read the article title I misread it to be Hoarding of Games and it started me thinking of way back in my computer days in the early 80's.
The same psychology of hoarding gave me pause, and reminded me of the kids I used to know that would try to collect every game for a system that they could.
Pirated of course.
Some people used to try and collect every piece of software written for old Apple II or Atari's.
They spent so much time collecting and trying to collect that most of what they had they never even played or used once.
It made me reconsider what I thought about piracy....stealing, sharing, collecting.
I'm still not sure what I think of this inbred way of going about things in the human species, but I find the urge to hoard interesting.
When someone has 10,000 pieces of software or 20,000, what does it mean?
After the 200,000th song or the 10,000 movie.... what then..... more collecting, different collecting.
_EOE_CompassIIDX
There are mods that allow you to rotate objects, and more easily line up books and other items.
Or did you actually play a Bethesda game on console...  ::shudder::
_EOE_LordVader717
That sure is a bad example.
Most star missions were basically new experiences, and were most often quite fun.
There were some exceptions, like the blue coins in Sunshine.The again by that logic, completing a game just to have beaten it is on the same level.
If the experience becomes repetetive and boring, which many games do after a few hours, then there should be no reason or motivation to finish.
But many people do just that so they haven't got "gaps" in their "collection".The moral of this story is basically don't sink time into things you don't enjoy.
Always consider if something is worth your time before you invest too much into it.
_EOE_LordVader717
It can work the other way as well.
I have seen many people who are compulsive minimalistic and are obsessive about tidyness.
They will often want things that they once threw away, sometimes having to buy a new one.
Or they spend hours every week, almost like a schedule, just to minimize perceived "junk".While clearing a house can be a daunting task, it's pretty easy to underestimate the amount of posessions a household collects throughout their life.
It's unreasonable to expect people to constantly sift through their posessions to exclude anything that they probably won't be needing.
